ISCM with Nagios
----------------
_10/6/2020_


<details>
  <summary>What is the difference between SOC and a CSIRT?</summary>

  <blockquote>
    The SOC protects the company from security breaches by identifying, analyzing and reacting to cybersecurity
    threats. The core function of a CSIRT is to minimize and manage damage caused by an incident, the CSIRT also
    communicates with stakeholders. The SOC often oversees the CSIRT
  </blockquote>

  <ul>
    <li><b>SOC:</b><em> DETECTION</em> - Security Operations Center</li>
    <li><b>CSIRT:</b><em> RESPONSE</em> - Computer Security Incident Response Team</li>
  </ul>
</details>

---

<details>
  <summary>What are the first 5 Steps to establish a SOC?</summary>

  <ul>
    <li>
      <b>The Soc != IT</b>
      <p>
        The SOC protects an entire organization from security breaches. They are not help desk for internal
        employees or external customers. *Creates the VPN / Doesn't help you connect to it*
      <p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <b>Provide Tooling and Training</b>
      <p>
        Without the appropriate tools and training a SOC is only an illusion of safety.
      <p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <b>Vet and Hire</b>
      <p>
        Security analysts and security engineers are supervised by an SOC manager. The SOC manager needs to have
        strong security expertise, management skills, and battle-tested crisis management experience.
      <p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <b>Have an incident response plan ready</b>
      <p>
        It is not a question of if you will be attacked but rather when you will be attacked. Have a plan in
        place and ready to be executed.
      <p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <b>Defend</b>
      <p>
        Every point of entry or communcation between machines is a potential vulnerability. Never trust the
        client and assume every request is malicious.
      <p>
    </li>

  </ul>
</details>

---

<details>
  <summary>Name 3 best practices for a SOC?</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <b>Detect threats through all stages of an attack</b>
      <ul>
        <li>All attacks have three stages Pre-Attack, Attack, Post-Attack. All stages are equally important but
          only one can be addressed before an issue exists.</li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <b>Investigate all alerts to ensure nothing is overlooked</b>
      <ul>
        <li>"It always does that" is not a good excuse to allow a problem to persist.</li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <b>Gather forensic evidence for investigation and remediation</b>
      <ul>
        <li>AAA (Arrange-Act-Assert), then Red, Green, Refactor.</li>
      </ul>
    </li>
  </ol>
</details>

---

<details>
  <summary>What is SIEM?</summary>
  <blockquote>
    Security information and event management
  </blockquote>
</details>

---

<details>
  <summary>What is GRC?</summary>
  <blockquote>
    Governance, risk and compliance
  </blockquote>
</details>

---

<details>
  <summary>What is IDS/IPS/WIP?</summary>
  <ul>
    <li>Intrusion Detection Systems</li>
    <li>Intrusion Prevention Systems</li>
    <li>Wireless Intrusion Prevention</li>
  </ul>
</details>

---

<details>
  <summary>What is SIEM?</summary>
  <blockquote>
    Security information and event management
  </blockquote>
</details>

---

<details>
  <summary>What is Nagios?</summary>
  <blockquote>
    A tool to monitor systems, infrastructure, and networks to identify performance bottlenecks and send alerts.
  </blockquote>
</details>


---

**Resources:**
- [exabeam](https://www.exabeam.com/security-operations-center/security-operations-center-a-quick-start-guide/)
- [Nagios](https://www.educba.com/nagios-monitoring-tool/)